Pipedrive blog post, work in progress (#266)
debezium/debezium.github.io: blog/2019-03-28-debezium-at-pipedrive.adoc

Example connector job template:

[source,json]
----
{
 "tasks.max": "1",
 "connector.class": "io.Debezium.connector.MySQL.MySQLConnector",

 "database.hostname": "{MySQL.host}",
 "database.port": "{MySQL.port}",
 "database.user": "{MySQL.username}",
 "database.password": "{MySQL.password}",
 "database.server.id": "{Debezium.server.id}",
 "database.server.name": "company_db_{baseID}",

 "database.history.kafka.bootstrap.servers": "{kafka.servers}",
 "database.history.kafka.topic": "Debezium-history-company-db{baseID}",
 "database.history.store.only.monitored.tables.ddl": true,
 "database.history.skip.unparseable.ddl": "true",

 "ddl.parser.mode": "antlr",
 "snapshot.mode": "schema_only",

 "snapshot.locking.mode": "none",
 "only.in.env.test.snapshot.locking.mode": "minimal",

 "gtid.new.channel.position": "earliest"
}
----

== Connector health monitoring and automatic restart.

As Debezium connector can’t automatically recover from MySQL connection issues, it needs another management script to restart the task. At first we used external cron like script for this, but now as nodejs is already running in container, we delegated this responsibility there as well.

> The logic is very simple - every 30 seconds it connects to the Kafka Connect REST API running in the local container and retrieves the connector status. If the connector or task is in FAILED state, it tries to restart it by posting connectors/jobname/tasks/1/restart up to 5 times. If still doesn’t work or there’s UNASSIGNED state, starts graceful shutdown of the Docker container.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The logic is very simple - every 30 seconds it connects to the Kafka Connect REST API running in the local container and retrieves the connector status. If the connector or task is in FAILED state, it tries to restart it by posting to _connectors/jobname/tasks/1/restart_ up to 5 times. If it still doesn’t work or there’s UNASSIGNED state, a graceful shutdown of the Docker container is initiated.
```

== Securing the Kafka Connect REST API

> Because the Kafka Connect REST API had no built in security (in the beginning of 2018 at least), anybody could query and see Kafka cluster and MySQL credentials in plaintext. To prevent such leak we’ve added simple nodejs http proxy script with http basic auth to different port and only expose this port to outside. Once auth is passed this nodejs proxy just forwards all the requests to kafka connect local port 8080.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because the Kafka Connect REST API had no built in security (in the beginning of 2018 at least), anybody could query and see Kafka cluster and MySQL credentials in plaintext. To prevent such leak, we’ve added a simple Node.js HTTP proxy script with HTTP basic auth on a different port and only expose this port to the outside. Once auth is passed this Node.js proxy just forwards all the requests to Kafka Connect on local port 8080.
```

== Monitoring with Prometheus/Grafana

> Debezium exposes nice JMX variables, but to query them using prometheus scraper we added prometheus exporter into Debezium docker image. This library has worked without problems https://github.com/prometheus/jmx_exporter[jmx_prometheus_javaagent] and we’re most Debezium and kafka connect prefixed variables as prometheus metrics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Debezium exposes nice JMX variables, but to query them using the Prometheus scraper, we added the Prometheus exporter into the Debezium docker image. This library has worked without problems https://github.com/prometheus/jmx_exporter[jmx_prometheus_javaagent] and we've most Debezium and Kafka Connect prefixed variables as Prometheus metrics.
```

> Our main alerts are based on https://debezium.io/docs/connectors/mysql/#binlog-metrics[MySQL_binlog_connected metric], but unfortunately it hasn’t proven absolutely reliable, so there is additional alerts based on logs, counting “org.apache.kafka.connect.errors.ConnectException” exceptions.

Reviewer: Do you know what the problem there is? Can you file an issue in DBZ for investigating this?

> Our grafana dashboard looks like this

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our Grafana dashboard looks like this:
```

So what we’ve done so far (to make it perform acceptable level) is apply strict table whitelist for tracking 25% of the most critical tables. For large history topic configured connector to only contain whitelisted table DDLs. Also increasing java heap size to ~2GB has so far proven reliable.

[source,json]
----
database.history.store.only.monitored.tables.ddl: "true",
database.history.skip.unparseable.ddl": "true",
----

=== Snapshots without locking
You can configure connector to use locking.mode=’none’, but it’s dangerous as ALTERS running during the snapshot will not be reflected in the Debezium in-memory database schema. You will learn about it only when the first data change event arrives for that table, which could be weeks after snapshot. So far the fix that worked has been to run schema recovery asap.

== Lessons learned

> *Kafka connect in distributed mode is unstable*. Kafka-connect cluster doesn’t play well with large connectors count and slow task startup time - one connector restart can cause rebalance event, which means one repeatedly failing MySQL connector can halt whole cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Kafka Connect in distributed mode is potentially unstable*. Kafka Connect clustering doesn’t play well with large numbers of connectors and slow task startup time - one connector restart can cause a rebalance event, which means one repeatedly failing MySQL connector can halt whole cluster.
```

> *Manual Debezium offsets adjusting has saved us many times* - storing offsets in external kafka topic allowed us to easily adjust connector’s last offset by producing valid json message and restarting container. With active-passive setup unfortunate server failure can introduce new gaps in gtid ranges or slave or debezium itself can become ahead of new master on particular gtid channel. Fixing this without reseting connector needs manual intervention to last offset.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Manual Debezium offsets adjusting has saved us many times* - storing offsets in external Kafka topic allowed us to easily adjust connector’s last offset by producing a valid JSON message and restarting the container. With active-passive setup, an unfortunate server failure can introduce new gaps in GTID ranges, or the slave or Debezium itself can get ahead of the new master on a particular GTID channel. Fixing this without resetting connector needs manual intervention to last offset.
```

On this one, is there anything we can do about it? If so, could you file an in issue in JIRA?

Author: Yes, I'll add issue.

Problem is in mysql side, but debezium could help getting around it.

Some examples: 
1) master-slave setup, each own gtid channel + master and slave also has each others (failover has happened once).

Now even when slave is read-only mode some replication events can add changes to slave gtid channel. In memory tables in particular. 
*the first time that the master uses a given MEMORY table after startup, it logs an event that notifies slaves that the table must to be emptied by writing a DELETE statement for that table to the binary log. MySQL will still always write the DELETE query after a server restart, even if it’s for a table not to be replicated.*(https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.7/en/replication-features-memory.html).

What happens is slave own gtid channel will be ahead of what is in master, and those changes will be removed from binlog after some days.

Now when failover happens, debezium finds that the offsets for this gtid channel are behind of what's in new master (old slave), but master also has already purged them! So replication fails, until manually offset pushed (usually by less than 10 steps).

2) MySQL master server crashing hard (segfault) - will introduce new availability holes in gtid channel.

For example this: 
c0ab881b-31ec-11e8-a311-fa163ea867bf:1-44725:44727-45214:45216-52812:52814-54900:54902-505192,

For debezium this is already blocker, even though it should only care about events after it's last offset position (505192) in this case. Again fix right now is to manually write debezium-offsets topic message with new gtid holes, then connector can resume.

3) Debezium getting "ahead" of new master after failover. As our debezium is connector to mysql master, it's possible that async slave instance has huge lag and debezium commits offsets ahead of what mysql slave has processed. When on that moment failover happens, there's small data loss in mysql servers and debezium has offsets in master gtid channel ahead of new master. This is again blocker and manually fixed by pushing dbz offsets back. This is very rare, but with large number servers things do happen.

Author: created issue https://issues.jboss.org/browse/DBZ-1200

> *Schema / ddl parser problems really hurt*. There’s no easy way out as the alter breaking Debezium ddl parser can come from any database/table (whitelist doesn't apply) and is also written into history topic. Even if you push the debezium offset manually over the failing event you’ll crash again while reading from the history topic. Only thing that works is running schema recovery, but this only when no other alters have been executed.

Reviewer: Do you have any remaining DDL issues that are still unfixed? If not, it'd be cool to highlight that you've reported the problems and they were fixed.

> *Schema / ddl parser problems really hurt*. There’s no easy way out as the alter breaking Debezium ddl parser can come from any database/table (whitelist doesn't apply) and is also written into history topic. Even if you push the debezium offset manually over the failing event you’ll crash again while reading from the history topic. Only thing that works is running schema recovery, but this only when no other alters have been executed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Schema / DDL parser problems really hurt*. There’s no easy way out as the alters breaking the Debezium DDL parser can come from any database/table (whitelist doesn't apply) and is also written into history topic. Even if you push the Debezium offset manually over the failing event you’ll crash again while reading from the history topic. The only thing that works is running schema recovery, but this only when no other alters have been executed.
```

But once you get it running stable you’ll see uptime for months.

== Future

> Change data capture remains a huge part of our system and has proven to produce consistent and reliable data. Setting up and operations hasn’t been the smoothest, but it does work delivering initial goal of zero data loss. We have production services depending on it every day and more being built.

Reviewer: Maybe you could add a sentence or two, stating that you're working with us (Debezium team) to further improve problems you've ran into? You already did apply a nice set of changes, would be cool to highlight that, too.

== Architecture

We use debezium to only capture changes done in database and not entire state.

We’ve found that operating Debezium at scale requires quite large management layer. For example even through Debezium supports high-available setups, there’s no built in a way to assign multiple servers to one connector and this must be solved externally.

=== MySQL high available

We have two types of high available MySQL clusters: a large number of *active-passive server* pairs and one big *multi-master cluster*.

++++
<div class="imageblock centered-image">
    <img src="/images/pipedrive-active-passive-db.png" style="max-width:100%; margin-bottom:20px; margin-top:20px;" class="responsive-image" alt="Active Passive setup">
</div>
++++

The cluster fallback mechanism differs between the two set-ups:

* Active-passive cluster: virtual IP in front of master handles automatic failover to slave

> * Multi-master: MySQL MySQL databases use DNS to just route to another master node

Reviewer 2: "MySQL MySQL databases"
